[#137] Message Transformation - Rename support (phase 4) (#4642)
AxonFramework/AxonFramework: docs/reference-guide/modules/migration/pages/paths/upcasters.adoc

Match that version in `from(...)` when lifting legacy events, as shown above.
====

[#_renaming_an_event]
== Renaming an event

Axon Framework 4 keyed an event off its payload _class name_ (the `SerializedType` name defaulted to the fully qualified class name), so a name change had to be bridged at the serialization layer or by an upcaster that rewrote the stored `SerializedType`.
Axon Framework 5 keys off a logical `MessageType` decoupled from the class, so a rename becomes a first-class operation: declare the old and new identity and the payload is carried over unchanged.

A payload-mapping `transform(...)` may only change the version, never the name.

> A rename uses the dedicated `rename(...)` factory instead, with no mapper:

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
A payload-mapping `transform(...)` may only change the version, never the name. For renames, use the dedicated `rename(...)` factory instead, which does not require a mapper:
```

[source,java]
----

> public final class CourseOfferedToCoursePublished {

Reviewer: I think we can add import statements here, as we got a full class.

    private static final MessageType FROM = new MessageType("coursecatalog.CourseOffered", "1.0.0");
    private static final MessageType TO   = new MessageType("coursecatalog.CoursePublished", "1.0.0");

    public static EventTransformation build() {
        return EventTransformation.rename(FROM, TO); // <1>
    }
}

> ----

Reviewer: Nit: The text here says "because the payload is **unchanged**" while the same callout in `defining-transformations.adoc` says "because the payload is **carried over unchanged**". The latter phrasing is more explicit and matches the surrounding prose in both files. I'd suggest we do the same here.
